---
layout: post
comments: false
title:  "Reading Karpathy's Survival Guide to a PhD"
excerpt: "guide, experiences"
date:   2016-09-08
mathjax: true
---

[*A Survival Guide to a PhD*](http://karpathy.github.io/2016/09/07/phd/)

Andrej's writing improved a lot as you have been following his blog posts for nearly a year. (this is also something I wish to achieve through writing and practices)

This post worth a second/third/repeated reading. Perhaps when you encounter something in real PhD life and come back to this article, you can find it totally different.
Although it is the first time I read this post, I try to imagine myself a year ago; I wonder how would I react to his advices without carrying on one-year real experience.

Despite the fact that I am moving to my second year, I still find many his advisers new to me (there is a huge amount of A-ha moments). For instance, the student-adviser relationship is a thorny problem. Most of time, I feel like myself pushing very hard to the edge and my supervisor seems the one pulling me back. I realized, leant from the guide, that 

> It’s a difference between “you’re missing a second term in that equation” and “you may want to read up more in this area, talk to this or that person, and sell your work this or that way”.

I kinda prefer the former type of supervision mainly because I was trained as an economists and now I am doing psychology researches. I wish my supervisor provides more hand-on guides to reduce frictions in conducting researches in psychology.
For example, producing one or two publications can give me more insights about how would typical researches work in this field.

Another thing is the potential collaboration with senior PhD students or post-docs. Find some fellow students that I admire and respect is also important for your PhD life.
This is the thing I neglected last year.

All in all, I enjoy reading. Should I find more life echos from his guide in the future. I definitely will revisit this post again. I like his finishing touch, which gives everyone a bright path to the uncertain future:

> Do good work, communicate it properly, people will notice and good things will happen. Have a fun ride!
