---
layout: post
comments: false
title:  "Rutledge, Skandali, Dayan, & Dolan (2014) PNAS"
excerpt: "subjective well-being, dopamine, computational model, RPE"
date:   2016-09-07
mathjax: true
---

[*A computational and neural model of momentary subjective well-being*](http://www.pnas.org/content/111/33/12252.full)

I missed Robb's talk on this paper in [the `DRAW forum` at Warwick](http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/draw/forum/) last year.
Yesterday, this paper was mentioned and suggested by my supervisor so I feel obligated to thoroughly walk through it.

Feel interesting points surface up straightaway are:

(1) The usage of mobile phone apps (they are using [`The Great Brain Experiment`](http://www.thegreatbrainexperiment.com/)) to collect massive behavioral data

(2) Linking behavioral data to neural data through RPE (the reward prediction errors).


The main theme of the paper is to tackle the happiness (or subjective well-being) problem through computational models.
Formal models provide clean and unambiguous relationships among model variables via the model architecture.
Then we fit parameters to empirical data, which further constrain/regulate model predictions.


So here is their model:

\begin{equation}
Happiness(t) = w_0 + w_1 \sum_{j=1}^{t} \gamma^{t-j} CR_j + w_2 \sum_{j=1}^{t} \gamma^{t-j} EV_j + w_3 \sum_{j=1}^{t} \gamma^{t-j} RPE_j
\end{equation}

The model basically implies that level of happiness at time t is determined by chosen certain reward (CR), the expected value of chosen gambles (EV), and reward prediction errors (RPE).

If you familiar with economics model, CR and EV are easy to understand. They are basically governed by the nature of gambles.

The intersting component is the inclusion of RPEs (if you are familiar with RL literature, it is sometimes called Temporal-difference errors as well). It is a quantity that measures the differences between experienced/actual and predicted/estimated rewards.
RPEs are supposed to provide decision makers insights about how future would be (sort of forward looking guide).

Based on the model specification, the authors collected data from smartphone-based apps and from lab-based neuroimaging machines.
They are able to conclude that momentary happiness reflects not how well things are going but instead whether things are going better than expected (i.e., large influence of RPE).
When consider the happiness at the moment, people are less likely to consider some big wins that already happened 10 trials ago.


It is intriguing to have the model fitting results for behavioral data and neuronal data (4 independent studies) shared similar parameter estimates.

