---
layout: post
comments: false
title:  "Chapter 4 of Adam White's Thesis [2]"
excerpt: "Predictive Knowledge, reinforcement learning"
date:   2016-09-10
mathjax: true
---

[*Developing a predictive approach to knowledge*](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.698.7096&rep=rep1&type=pdf)

Today I continue learning from Adam White's thesis.

I focus on the predictive knowledge approaches that he reviewed in the computer science literature.
The general framework is a `question-answer` setup, where an agent try its best to answer some specific questions.
Similar to Golman and Loewenstein's setup for their [`information gap theory`](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/sds/docs/golman/golman_loewenstein_curiosity.pdf):

> People will seek information about questions they like thinking about and will avoid information about questions they do not like thinking about.

It is very intuitively right.
Their work further defines the question-answer knowledge structure and classifies 3 different states:

(1) knowing --> a question & a particular answer

(2) not knowing, but knowing that one doesn't know --> a question & a set of possible answers

(3) not knowing and not knowing what one doesn't know --> pure unawareness, the absence of an activated question


I'm not sure whether Adam is in which state (1), (2) or (3) for the information gap theory. 
These are fascinating works stemmed from economics and psychology.

Go back to CS literature, there are a handful of techniques that capable of implementing predictive knowledge.
Preditive State Representation by Littman, Sutton, & Singh (2000);
TD nets by Sutton & Tanner (2005);
TPSR by Boots et al., (2010);
prediction profile models by Talvitie & Singh (2011);
and the GVF by White, Sutton, & Modayil's work.

There are not many texts that compare and contrast these works. 
I would love to learn some review works fixing this gap. :)






